for the first month of spring the Queen
has her work cut out as she builds her
starter nest she flies it up to 50 km/h
if you could keep up with her she would
appear formidable a giant amongst wasps
her body is packed with deadly venom
giant Hornets claimed the lives of up to
70 Japanese each year her huge
sophisticated eyes allow precision
navigation her fearsome jaw packed with
muscle is a weapon her daughters will
inherit and wield in bloody combat her
wings bear the weight of her massive
body she must fly 4 kilometers every day
as she prepares for the birth of her
army multiple layers of chitin form an
impenetrable body armor over her
precious cargo of eggs
[Music]
the time has come to found her empire
the queen has chosen to set up home in
the river bank
underground the delicate starter nest is
protected from the wind and Sun she lays
her very first egg just like any mother
her commitment to her offspring will be
unswerving her young should have a good
start
unless luck turns against him
[Music]
runoff from the storm forces the river
to flood
[Music]
she must escape but she can take her
larva with her
[Music]
it's a terrible setback but is not the
last the valuable seed of this Queen
[Music]